README.markdown, before:

#Market

Forked from the (spray-can template)[https://github.com/spray/spray-template], specifically the `on_spray-can_1.3_scala-2.11` branch.

##Model

Underneath the System, the top-level actors are the Router (a.k.a. "Guardian"), the QueryProcessor ("MrEcho"), the CommandProcessor ("Sarge"), and the Reaper ("Otto").

Otto watches any actor that sends a WatchMe request. Currently, Otto only watches Sarge.

Guardian routes incoming HttpRequests, directing PUT requests (commands) to Sarge, and GET requests (queries) to MrEcho. Guardian only waits for a response after sending a query.

Upon receiving a command, Sarge performs any validation implemented, and then transforms successful commands into events, which it sends to MrEcho.

MrEcho maintains the current state of records. Upon receiving a query, it responds to the sender with the query result success or an error message failure. Upon receiving an event, it applies the event to the current state.

For example purposes, a Tester actor is also created under System, which sends PUT requests directly to Guardian to populate the records. Querys can then be generated in a web browser by navigating to localhost:8080 and using the provided links.

##Design Considerations/Assumptions

* Preliminarily, each user will only have a name, an ID number, and a set of tags that describe subscriptions. Each item for sale will only have a title and a set of tags describing possible subscription criteria (including author, artist, etc.)
* A User may be an ActiveUser or an InactiveUser, likewise for an Item. This will be the sole means of discerning user or item status.
* User authentication and security will be handled outside of this module. Any function that modifies a user entry in this library (and associated databases) will not check for user permissions, so security should be implemented prior to calling.

##Major Modifications

* Updated to Akka 2.4.6 and Scala 2.11.8
* Added `reference.conf` per (the Akka Persistence docs)[http://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/2.4.7/scala/persistence.html#Local_LevelDB_journal]
* Added a hierarchical controller using the template from Vernon, "Reactive Messaging Patterns with the Actor Model" ch. 2, to avoid dead letters (most actor patterns were learned from Vernon).
* Modified `build.sbt` with fork workaround per (this post)[http://stackoverflow.com/questions/19425613/unsatisfiedlinkerror-with-native-library-under-sbt] (This is a known sbt issue, having to do with native library exportation and the jvm classpath. See (the eventsourced documentation)[https://github.com/eligosource/eventsourced/wiki/Installation#native])
* Added a Reaper pattern for clean shutdown of web server and unlocking of database per (shutdown patterns in akka)[http://letitcrash.com/post/30165507578/shutdown-patterns-in-akka-2]
* Utilized the Spray.io routing techniques described in (the spray-routing documentation)[http://spray.io/documentation/1.2.3/spray-routing/#spray-routing]

##To get started

1. Git-clone this repository.

        $ git clone git://github.com/bmorris458/market.git my-project

2. Change directory into your clone:

        $ cd my-project

3. Launch application:

        $ sbt run

6. Browse to [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080/)

7. To stop the application, browse to [the stop page](http://localhost:8080/stop)

##Development direction

* Add persistent query actor per http://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/2.4.6/scala/persistence-query.html#persistence-query-scala
* Add publish-subscribe channel per Vernon, p. 154
* Add applicative validation with scalaz per https://github.com/ironfish/akka-persistence-mongo-samples

Commit message:

First query to either users or items works, but all futures created by asks fail to complete after that. Possible that returnAddress becomes stale, but is created as a var and reassigned on each query. Query futures are also assigned to a var, and should not become stale (scoping should've handled this anyway, but was worth trying in case scope was not what I thought it was).

README.markdown, after:

#Market

Forked from the (spray-can template)[https://github.com/spray/spray-template], specifically the `on_spray-can_1.3_scala-2.11` branch.

##Model

Underneath the System, the top-level actors are the Router (a.k.a. "Guardian"), the CommandProcessor ("Sarge"), and the Reaper ("Otto"). Underneath Sarge is the QueryProcessor ("MrEcho").

Otto watches any actor that sends a WatchMe request. Currently, Otto only watches Sarge.

Guardian routes incoming HttpRequests, directing PUT requests (commands) to Sarge, and GET requests (queries) to MrEcho. Guardian only waits for a response after sending a query.

Sarge creates MrEko, then introduces it to Guardian so Guardian can send queries. Upon receiving a command, Sarge performs any validation implemented, and then transforms successful commands into events, which it sends to MrEcho.

MrEcho maintains the current state of records. Upon receiving a query, it responds to the sender with the query result success or an error message failure. Upon receiving an event, it applies the event to the current state.

For example purposes, Commands and Queries can be generated in a web browser by navigating to localhost:8080 and using the provided links.

##Design Considerations/Assumptions

* Preliminarily, each user will only have a name, an ID number, and a set of tags that describe subscriptions. Each item for sale will only have a title and a set of tags describing possible subscription criteria (including author, artist, etc.)
* A User may be an ActiveUser or an InactiveUser, likewise for an Item. This will be the sole means of discerning user or item status.
* User authentication and security will be handled outside of this module. Any function that modifies a user entry in this library (and associated databases) will not check for user permissions, so security should be implemented prior to calling.

##Major Modifications

* Updated to Akka 2.4.6 and Scala 2.11.8
* Added `reference.conf` per (the Akka Persistence docs)[http://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/2.4.7/scala/persistence.html#Local_LevelDB_journal]
* Added a hierarchical controller using the template from Vernon, "Reactive Messaging Patterns with the Actor Model" ch. 2, to avoid dead letters (most actor patterns were learned from Vernon).
* Modified `build.sbt` with fork workaround per (this post)[http://stackoverflow.com/questions/19425613/unsatisfiedlinkerror-with-native-library-under-sbt] (This is a known sbt issue, having to do with native library exportation and the jvm classpath. See (the eventsourced documentation)[https://github.com/eligosource/eventsourced/wiki/Installation#native])
* Added a Reaper pattern for clean shutdown of web server and unlocking of database per (shutdown patterns in akka)[http://letitcrash.com/post/30165507578/shutdown-patterns-in-akka-2]
* Utilized the Spray.io routing techniques described in (the spray-routing documentation)[http://spray.io/documentation/1.2.3/spray-routing/#spray-routing]

##To get started

1. Git-clone this repository.

        $ git clone git://github.com/bmorris458/market.git my-project

2. Change directory into your clone:

        $ cd my-project

3. Launch application:

        $ sbt run

6. Browse to [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080/)

7. To stop the application, browse to [the stop page](http://localhost:8080/stop)

##Development direction

* Add publish-subscribe channel per Vernon, p. 154
* Add applicative validation with scalaz per https://github.com/ironfish/akka-persistence-mongo-samples
